Okay, welcome. My name is Divine.  This is another episode of the Divine Intervention Podcast.  And this is going to be episode 325.  And this podcast is going to be a super super super high-yout podcast. I imagine that this is probably going to be a podcast.  kind of like episode 37. So this is an updated screening guidelines podcast.  is going to cover pretty much all the screening guidelines you need to know for your exams. I'll be really surprised if you got a screening guideline question wrong.  if you master this podcast and basically going to talk about every category that the mbme cares about.  and then two quick announcements. The first one is many of us know that, you know...  I mean if you listen to this podcast you're not a question.  You know, I put these life lessons podcasts at the end of some of my podcasts. And I've got tons and tons of emails from people that have said that they found those life lessons to be beneficial.  So I did actually start another website, divineinterventionlifelessons.com.  and basically you know it's a lot of Bible-based teaching just very short podcasts they're basically like a bunch of life lessons  Pretty much all of them are going to be 10 minutes or less. Right now I actually have six episodes on it.  Plung to keep adding more and more as time goes on.  Although, you know, even now and then I'm also slotting a few life lessons at the end of these podcasts But again, I've kind of studied another website for that and even those podcasts that divine intervention  like lessons podcasts, you can actually find them on Apple podcasts as well. They actually right now on Apple podcasts, that's one.  And then the second announcement I want to make is if you're studying for a state juicy gist of three or complex level two and three.  I do have a course starting next week. I have a Test Against Strategist course next week Wednesday.  from 2 to 4.30pm Pacific Standard Time.  and then I have a very comprehensive review course sticking please on.  Thursday Friday on Saturday of next week.  And basically we're gonna be covering Pede's surgery ObeyGuyne I am Neural Site.  FX BioStats  healthcare systems, professionalism, communications, basically like the things covered on the US Emily exams, I am going to cover them in in that course. Again, the course I kind of like where it is right now, it's very comprehensive to these parts of the exam.  and in addition to that, I try to keep the course updated very frequently.  so that because sometimes it's almost like you're in an arms race with the NBA me and just want to make sure that you're up to date on everything. So we'll basically cover about 1700 scenarios across those three days that buttress those facts. There are multiple kinds of questions we use. We use multiple choice.  audience responds, free standing questions, vignettes, scenarios. By the end, you'll feel very prepared. And again, hundreds of people have taken these courses. And I've had people do really well. I've had people get 250, 260, 270's from people doing these courses. I've seen many people have very good score improvements. Before comparing their scores before they took the course and after they took the course.  So let's go ahead and get right into the screen guidelines. So the thing is these screen guidelines, so the next is I'm gonna put them in seven categories. I think it's better to group them like this. If you're able to group them like this.  then it's much easier to memorize. So unfortunately this podcast is something that will be good on key material. So listen to the podcast because the thing is I'll try to make some integrations along the way.  Now let me get a little easier to remember and I'll give you some context. But again I'll encourage you to either take your notes and go over it over and over and over again. Or...  um, mickey on on key cards and then go over it over and over and over again.  The thing is this stuff is very important. You don't have to believe me, but just check pretty much people that have taken the exam recently.  They have tons and tons of questions on these screening guidelines. Right? Like they've started putting just more questions on these screening guidelines. So I'm really going to hit those hard. So the first category of people out of the scots are people that are pregnant. Right?  A people that are pregnant, so they are some higher things your friends have been being.  need you to know about screening guidelines in people that are pregnant. Right? So the first one for people that are pregnant are, you know, gestational diabetes, right? Gestational diabetes is something we're about in pregnant women.  You're going to start screening at around 24 weeks. Okay? You're going to start screening around 24 weeks. And for the most part, you're going to do that with a one hour or a glucose tolerance test.  And then if that is positive, you'll follow it up with a 3 hour oral glucose tolerance test.  Now another thing you check pregnant women for.  is HIV.  So remember HIV is something you check actually at the first prenatal visit, you check every pregnant woman for HIV at the first prenatal visit. Now one thing that's actually high you to know is that in addition to checking at the first prenatal visit.  You have to retest for HIV in the third trimester.  Again, because if you know woman has HIV, you want to take certain measures. So she doesn't transmit it to the fetus. You don't have a radical transmission to the fetus.  And then, heb is also the 13 you test for in, uh, you screen for in, uh, in pregnant women is also heb, right? You test pregnant women for heb and usually for the most part start that at the first prenatal visit on embankment exams. And usually you're going to do that with the heb, b surface antigen.  And then you also check for syphilis. You also check for syphilis at the first prenatal visit. That's important to know. And then I'm definitely also screened with men for at the first prenatal visit is asymptomatic bacteria. So if you're a woman that has ever been pregnant and you go to the OB-GYN doctor, they're going to tell you to pee in a cup at your first prenatal visit. So they are checking you for your symptomatic bacteria area because remember, if you have a symptomatic bacteria area, it increases your risk of pretermly brand delivery.  So you're a check for that, right? Because remember, normal women that are not pregnant, non-pregnant women.  If they have no symptoms, both the ayurine contains bacteria, we don't treat. But for pregnant women, we make an exception. So if you don't have preterm labor and delivery, so we treat.  So  We screen up that first prenatal visit if they have battery in the urine. We're gonna treat it. We're gonna treat it usually with nitrofure and towing.  Craig Homer  I'm going to try to do a Nitrofure in Toine or you know one of those large and erasional self-low sporeings. And then I'll think you trade it, you need to actually do a test of cure.  You need to do a test of Q.  And then another thing you also screen pregnant women for. So this is the sixth thing is group B strap. You're gonna screen for group B strap. Remember that strap? Egalactia. You're gonna do that right between 35 to 37 weeks. You're gonna figure out the woman's group B strap status.  And they and remember, a woman's...  R-Status, so determining if she's R-positive or R-negative.  and also determining her antibody status. Remember the antibody status is, "Oh, if you obviously, "for a month, you'll check the average status, right?" If it's positive or negative.  And then the next thing you do for one is our negative.  right? She will potentially make antibodies. So you check out antibody status by doing the indirect, that's very high yield, the indirect comb test, right? That's something you can also do at the first prenatal visit.  And remember women get a role game. If a woman is Irish negative, she gets a role game.  at around 28 weeks gestation and then she gets you within the first three days postpartum, the second dose of roger. So again in pregnant women don't forget to check for gestational diabetes, don't forget to check for HIV, don't forget to check for her B.  Don't forget to check for Cifalus. Don't forget to check for this automatic battery Urea.  Don't forget to check for group B strap and don't forget to check for the Irish status. I remember each IV is kinda unique. You're gonna test for that twice during pregnancy. You're gonna test for it.  But the first print it all visit and then you gotta repeat it in the third trimester.  Okay, so that's category number one, that's category A, pregnant people.  category B as smokers, right? Again, these are just high-risk populations that you can just pretty much tell, well, I'm going to get a question on this stuff on my exam.  So, smokers, the first thing I want you to keep in mind.  what's creating these people for first is a triple A, right? And abdominal eorticannurism. Remember these people.  The smokers that we screen for triple lane, right? First, you need to be between the edges of 65 to 75.  that's very high autonome, you need to be between the age of 65 to 75.  and we only screen men, I'll just see this right now.  You should never screen women for triple A's on NBim exams. You're only screen men for triple A's on NBim exams. So it has to be a man has to be all between the ages of 65 to 75.  and it must be a guy that has smoked in the past, right?  He must be a guy that I smoked if you've ever smoked as a guy or if you're a non-smoker as a guy, but you have a family history of an abdominal eortic aneurysm.  then yes you do need to screen again between the ages of 65 to 75.  And remember...  if you do that with an ultrasound and if you notice that the  The Persinzo!  Diabdomo the  I'm not really out of that diameter is, you know, more than 5.5 centimeters. So 5.5 centimeters or higher, then those people need intervention, right? You need endovascular repair of some sort.  And then...  One other thing you also scream for in smokers that's kind of unique is osteoporosis. Again, remember, we're screaming in women, right? So if a woman is on because normally for osteoporosis, we scream that in a gage of 65, but a dexter scan, but in smokers, in smokers, you can actually start screaming for osteoporosis if they are less than 65.  right? Again with a dexascant. And you also do this early, you know, less than 65 years old osteoporosis screening in people that are just high risk, right? In general, those are people that are very thin, right? So let's say for example, umand has anorexia nervosa, you're going to screen up osteoporosis. Well, let's say umand has premature ovarian failure, that's another very good candidate for less than 65 years old osteoporosis screening.  And then the third thing you screen for your smokers is long cancer. I'll see that again. You screen...  Smokeers for long cancer.  So, one of the guidelines for smokers with long cancer.  The big, big one I want you to keep in mind is...  If you need to first be between the edges of 55 to 80, that's a very important one. Between the edges of 55 to 80.  and you must have you must meet certain conditions right so the first again condition is the  and still.  Again, you must be 255 to AB.  and then you must have...  More than 30 or more pack years in terms of smoking history.  Right? 30 or more pocket years in terms of smoking history.  and you either have to currently be smoking or have quit.  like less than 15 years ago. So let's say for example you have like a 30-pack year smoke a more than 30-pack year smoke in history where you quit 30 years ago and you're between 55 to 80 you're not only eligible for long cancer screen as a smoker. So you can remember you must have had more than a 30-pack or more year smoke in history that's one.  Cory  You must either still be currently smoking or quit less than 15 years ago.  and then 3 you need to be between the edges of 55 to 80.  And how do you screen those people? You're gonna screen those people.  with a low dose CT scan. I'll say that again. You're going to screen those people with a low dose CT scan.  Right? Again, between the ages of 55 to 80. And guess what? You only do that load those CT scan three times. If you notice that, oh, are you doing it every year? Obviously, that's the screening interval.  So if you do it every year three times and you notice that it's negative, then you can stop those low-dose CT scans in those people after that interval. So again, very, very high-youtu-nody-scritting guidelines again in smokers. Those are populations they love to test on exams.  Now, so that's category number two. So for smokers we said again we screen them for triple ease, we screened them for we talked about their screening for osteoporosis and then we also talked about the screening for lung cancer.  Now let's jump on to the next category. The next category of people are people that have special genetic diseases.  there are certain high-ealt screening guidelines to know if you have a certain genetic disease. So the first one is if a person has familial hypercholesterolemia, right? These are people that get MI's at 20, like very early MI's in life. Remember most times when people have familial hypercholesterolemia.  they really have it because  we have an LDL receptor mutation, right? They usually have an LDL receptor mutation, so they're not able to clear LDL from the circulation.  Basically, those people, the easy way to remember the screening guidelines, you're obviously going to be checking the LDL cholesterol.  The key thing I want you to remember is just remember the rule of release it to three.  The rule of related to 3, what do I mean by that?  Basically, those people will start at the age of 3.  you check their LDO cholesterol adage of 3 years.  You check your ID of cholesterol and then...  at the age of nine years and then check the early Oculus Rougues of 18 years. So check it out three, check it out mine, and check it out 18.  And for the most part, even after the age of 18, you're going to keep screening and screening but again, the NBM means they're not going to go into those murky words on exams. Now, the second group of people with like, again, like a special disease that you need to screen for, right? Is inflammatory bowel disease. So, if it's just inflammatory bowel disease, it doesn't matter which type, all sort of collides, curse disease, literally it doesn't matter.  Those people need to be screened for colon cancer.  Right? They need to be screened for colon cancer in years after you make the initial diagnosis of IBD.  So once you're diagnosed, let's say you're diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease in the year 2022. Either a clinicalitis or a current disease and hopefully you will not get that diagnosis God will.  But let's see, the pressing gets diagnosed in 2022. And you need to start screening them for colon cancer.  at in the year 2030, right? In the year 2030. But there's a small exception to this role, right? Where you actually need to start screen a little earlier. And this is actually if a person is diagnosed with primary sclerosis in colonitis. For person is diagnosed with primary sclerosis in colonitis, you need to actually screen them for colon cancer at the time of diagnosis. That's very high old. You need to start screen them for colon cancer at the time of diagnosis. And then you're going to start screen or continue screen them for colon cancer every one to two years afterwards. That's very important to know. So a person has PSE at the time, not eight years later, at the time of diagnosis. You need to start screening them for colon cancer. And they need to do it for, you know, every one to two years afterwards. Now the next special genetic disease is a linked syndrome, right? HMPCC, Herodotrynonpoliposis, a colorectal cancer. Remember these people tend to have like micro satellite instability problems. So how do we screen these people for colon cancer? Well, remember, you're going to start screen these people for colon cancer at the age of 20, right? You need to start screening them at the age of 20. I need to do it every one to two years. And many times these high risk colon cancer populations, you're just going to go straight to a colonoscopy. I don't have to be messing around with fits, tats, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, no, just go straight to colonoscopy for these people.  But the thing is unfortunately, Lynch syndrome causes many other problems besides colon cancer, right? And your friends at the MbMe can occur that you know some of these things. So the thing is people that have Lynch syndrome, again, Hereditrynom polyposis, colorectal cancer.  Those people need to be screened for endometrial cancer starting at around the age of 30.  and you need to do it every one to two years. Many times you're gonna do this screening with either an endometrial biopsy or endometrial sampling against studying at the age of 30 and you do it every one to two years, right? So an easy way to remember which one comes first. Remember C comes before in the alphabet. So the C, the colon cancer, you start at each 20, right? And again, you do it every one to two years. And many times those people also give them like prophylactic aspirin. Aspirin actually lowers the presence risk of getting colorectal cancer, especially in these people. And then again, the endometrial cancer, the E, starts at each 30 and again, it's every one to two years as well. And one thing I would just encourage you to keep in mind because sometimes your friends at the MDME they like you to know some prophylactic like surgeries and stuff. You can bring people that have genetic disease, right? Many of us have heard of how like, if a person has MEN2.  of any sort, be it MEN2A or 2B, right? You're gonna offer them a prophylactic thyroid dichotomy, because it's not a matter of if they'll develop medallary thyroid cancer, it's just a matter of when. If they live long enough, they will develop medallary thyroid cancer. Well, that's in a sense, applies to people that have HNTCC. Those people, you actually need to offer them a prophylactic hysterectomy.  after child bearing because again the risk of endometrial cancer is astronomically high. The risk of ovarian cancer is also astronomically high. So many times we offer these people a THBSO. So THBSO means a total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-uferectomy. So it's a surgery where you take out the moments, ovaries, phallopian tubes and her uterus. So we offer these to these people after child bearing. That's very high you to know, for example.  Now the next special genetic disease I want to talk about is familial adenomatos polyposis, right? So FAP, right? FAP. Remember FAP is an autosomodominant disorder, right? It's a problem with the APC gene, right? So many times those people have an APC gene mutation and that will give them all these polyps and then after that APC gene mutation, they'll have a keras mutation and then after that keras mutation, they'll have a P53 mutation and then that will drive them towards colorectal cancer. So for those people, you need to start screening them for colorectal cancer at the age of 10 years, I need to do it every year. I'll say it again, you need to screen them for colorectal cancer starting at the age of 10, I need to do it every year.  And then the final genetic group that I'm going to talk about are people that have brachamutations, right? People that have brachamutations. So the big thing I want to talk about with brachamutations is breast cancer. So how do what are the breast cancer screening guidelines for people with brachamutations? Remember?  Those people between the ages of 25 to 29 they deserve annual breast MRI So I'll say it again between the ages of 25 to 29 you deserve an annual breast MRI if you have a braca mutation But if you are over the age of 30 then you deserve annual breast MRIs plus mammograms So every year if you're over the age of 30 and have a braca mutation you did an annual breast MRI and an annual mammogram Okay, so that's the third category of people that I wanted to discuss right so again just to summarize We talked about the screening guidelines for people that have familial hypercholesterolemia For the people that have inflammatory bowel disease for the people that have primary sclerosis and colangitis For the people that have kidney treatment polyposis colorectal cancer For the people that have braca mutations and for the people that have APC gene mutations aka familial at the nomadous polyposis  Now the fourth category of people I want to discuss are people that are I call them the risky sexual group The risky sexual group the risky sexual group right so what do I mean by who you mean the risky sexual group? Well the risky sexual group but who that have HIV men that have sex with men IV drug users sex workers people in that  group, right? Those are the risky sexual people. That's category D, right? So for those people, what are the screening guidelines for these people? Well, the first thing you want to be able to screen these people for is HIV, right? Basically, if you're in this higher risk category area between the edges of 15 to 64, you deserve annual HIV screening. That's very important to know, for exams. Now, the second thing here is these people, if they have syphilis, I mean, you need to screen them for syphilis every three months. Again, these higher risk sexual individuals need to screen them for syphilis every, every three months. And then the third thing you want to screen these people for are chlamydia and gonorrhea. Because the thing is, for the most part, if you're less than 24, every female that is less than 24 years old is recommended that you screen them for chlamydia gonorrhea. But the thing is, if you're over 24 and you're not higher risk sexually, you don't need to be screened for chlamydia gonorrhea, right? So the thing is, these people, because they are higher risk even over the age of 24, you're still going to screen them for chlamydia gonorrhea. The only people who's you screen, you should screen on NVMe exams for chlamydia gonorrhea, women, don't screen men for chlamydia gonorrhea on NVMe exams.  And then the fourth thing you screen these people for is head B right because again remember you can get head B through sexual intercourse Right so these people you screen them with the head B surface antigen  Every year.  every year, every year. And also this will also apply to like an anti-vaxer. Let's say a person is like I don't want the heavy vaccine. You can screen them with the heavy surface antigen every year. So those are the people that fall into the high risk sexual category, right? This category number four, category D, right? So again, we talked about the HIV guidelines in these people, the chlamydia gonorrhea guidelines in these people, the syphilis guidelines in these people, and the heavy guidelines in these people, right? Now the next group of people I'll talk about the next category, this category number five, right? So these are metabolic diseases, right? Metabolic diseases, these ones are floridly high autonoferexams, right? So the first one I'm going to talk about is hypertension.  Right? High pretension. Remember if a person is, you need to screen high for hypertension.  It's like very very important to an MBA me's right and you screen for hypertension studying at the age of 18 right so between the ages of 18 to 40 you screen for hypertension every 3 to 5 years  But once you get over the age of 40, you screen for hypertension every one to two years.  The reason we have a more frequent screening guideline if you get over the age of 40 is because obviously the incidence and the prevalence of hypertension is way higher over the age of 40 compared to the 18 to 40 age group all-life suspect that this guideline will change in the future because just again with the burden of metabolic disease in this country.  more people are getting super hypertensive very early in life. And those things obviously destroy a person's kidneys.  Now the third, the next thing I want to discuss about in terms of screening is diabetes, right? So diabetes, right? So what do we, how do we screen for diabetes? Basically, the two groups of people who screen for diabetes just in general, first things first are people that are obese, one in the same exams. If a person is obese, and they are between the ages of 40 to 70 years old.  You need to screen them for diabetes every six months. I remember that in many ways, you can screen for diabetes, you can do the fasting blood glucose, which is 126 or higher, or you can do the... And again, I talked about this extensively in my diabetes podcasts. You can do the oral glucose tolerance test, you can do the hemoglobin A1C, right? There are many ways you can screen for diabetes, right? And then, so first group, if you obese, between the ages of 40 to 70, second group, if you have hypertension,  If you have hypertension, basically if your blood pressure is over 135 systolic and 80 stolic, then you over the age of 45, you're 45 or higher, you also need diabetes screening again every 6 months. So for the most part, these higher age groups that I just mentioned, again, will be spressing between the ages of 40 to 70.  hypertensive presence of blood pressure over 135 over 80 over the age of 45 you need to be screened this view for diabetes every every six months right and then osteoporosis right I kind of talked about it already but you know smokers they have their special recommendation but if you're over the age of 65 and you're a woman we don't screen men for osteoporosis you're a woman we're gonna screen you at a dexascant right and we're gonna do remember we're looking for that T-score your T-score is less than negative 2.5  And that's that, if it's negative 2.5 or less, that tells us you have osteoporosis. You need to be pleased on some kind of a bisphosphinate.  And then the final metabolic disease that I think I'll talk about is hyperlipidemia, right? So like...  LDL cholesterol, right? So the big thing I want to keep in mind here is  Just really try to divide these people into three groups. Right? There's the Screen Guidelines for Men.  There's screening guidelines for women and there's screening guidelines for diabetics. That's very important to know. So what's the screening guideline for men? Or for men, basically, they're three tiers of men.  You can be between the edges of 2045.  for those people who screen them every 5 years.  for Hyper-Lipidemia. Basically, everyone gets screened for Hyper-Lipidemia study in 2020.  If that's an easy effort to remember, right? But for men, again, between the ages of 20 to 45, we screen every five years.  Now if you're between the ages of 45 to 65, we're going to screen you every one to two years. We're going to screen you every one to two years. Now if you go over the age of 65, then we need to screen you vibrato pedemia every single year.  again just as a general concept.  For metabolic disease, the screening guidelines get more frequent than order you become. Simple as that. So again, for men from 20 to 45, every 5 years, from 45 to 65, every 1 to 2 years, over the age of 65, every year.  Now for women, the guidelines are similar, but the thing is that study now each 20 will expand the range a bit more, because women, the Arisco cardiovascular disease is not that high until they go past menopause right around the age of 55.  So the thing is for women, between the ages of 20 to 55, was screened for hyperlipidemia every 5 years.  But from 55 to 65, we do it every one to two years. And then over the age of 65, we're going to do it every year. OK? We're going to do it every year.  Now, if you're a diabetic...  Basically I'll just tell you this.  Do you have diabetes?  is your LDL cholesterol over  Let me put it this way.  with screen diabetics for hyperliplidemia every year. The end.  We screen them for hyperlipidemia every year. And remember, if you notice that their LDA cholesterol is 70 or higher.  that's in milligrams per deciliter, those people are going to be placed on a high intensity starting like a tover-starting or a rezover-starting. That's very important to know, right? So again...  Kiki metabolic diseases we talked about screening for right we talked about hypertension  We talked about osteoporosis, we talked about diabetes, and we talked about hyperlipidemia. So we should all know the screening guidelines for that.  Now we're almost done with this podcast, but the next report we're going to talk about are cancers, right? Cancer. Cancer is cancer is cancer is very, very important to know.  Right, so the first one is colon cancer. Again, I've kind of talked about colon cancer in some genetic diseases, but let's talk about just like most, you know,  pretty much everyone else, right? So the thing is, colon cancer, you start screening at the age of 50.  Now let me tell you this, on an MBM example, you can see a person that is 45 or higher that needs colon cancer screening, right? The thing is the guidelines have changed relatively recently to where we can start screening people like EG or 45. So that's something to keep in mind, right? So I would probably say that colon cancer screening should be done between the edges of 45 to 75. I'll say that again, it should probably be done between the edges of 45 to 75 on MBM exams. That's a screening interval. Now, the thing is...  There are many different ways you can screen for Cologne Cancer and unfortunately, all these different ways are very high to know for exams, right? So, you can go Cologneoscopy every 10 years. That's perfectly fine.  you can do flexible sigmaidoscopy every five years. That's perfectly fine.  you can do flexible sigmaidoscopy every 10 years.  But the thing is if you're doing it every 10 years, you need to be doing a fit test, like a fickle immuno test. You're supposed to do it every year. If you're doing the flex, they give you every 10 years.  you can also do that  FIT test, again that fickle immunotest or the FOBT, the fickle or called blood test, you know those hemocards, you can do those every year as well, right? And then another new kit on the block that I suspect will gain wider spread acceptance in the future is CT colonography. You can do CT colonography, right? Basically, is a CT scan that looks at your colon, but it has like certain protocols that make it very highly sensitive.  for detecting colon cancer. And you're going to do that every five years, right? So again, just in summary, you'll screen people for colon cancer and endemic exams, you know, outside of those genetic diseases I've talked about earlier.  between the ages of 45 to 75.  And you're gonna do that with colonoscopy every 10 years. Or you can do flexible sigmaid also every 5 years.  Or you can do flexible sigmoidoscope every 10 years.  But you need to do a fixed test, a fixed limit test every year.  where you can do an FOBT or that again, fickle in the middle test every year, or you can do CT-colonography every five years. Now let me tell you this.  For all these other tests I've mentioned besides colonoscopy.  If any of those things are positive for malignancy or show you something that looks like malignancy, your next best step in management on MBME exams is always going to be a colonoscopy with a biopsy. It's always always always going to be a colonoscopy with a biopsy. So that's the first one. Now, the second cancer I'll talk about is breast cancer. Remember breast cancer, there are two guidelines that I used.  There is the American Cancer Society guidelines that say "start at 40" and screen every year.  women.  USPSTF says "Start at 50, 3" between the edges of 50 to 75.  and then do it every every two years every two years right so the thing is many people use the uspst of guidelines but the thing is our friends at the mbme also use the ecs guidelines  So I would know both if I read you. Many times it will give you enough context in the exam question that will help you pick out the right answer. ritisac.com points to every year.  for as long as the woman has a decent life expectancy.  The USPSTF says between 50 to 75, do it every 2 years. That's obviously gonna build a with a Mamogra.  And then cervical cancer. So what are the screening guidelines for cervical cancer? These are really like hot cakes for our friends at the MBMs. So this one you definitely want to make sure you know you know well. But basically, HPV, I mean cervical cancer, you're going to screen between the ages of 21 to 29.  Right? And you're gonna do that with a pap smear every three years. Between the ages of 21 to 29, you do it with a pap smear every three years.  Now, if you're over the age of 30, right, so if you're between 30 and 65 years old.  There is one of three modalities you can go with. There is a preferred modality of the three, but the other two are perfectly acceptable on MBM exams. So the preferred modality is that you do a PubSmir and HPV Co-Testing every five years.  So a PubSmear plus HPVQ testing every five years. That is the preferred mortality.  for people between the ages of 30 to 65 for cervical cancer.  But  Between the edges of 30 to 65, some other options that are available to use you can do a Popsmear every 3 years, just like you did from 21 to 29, but again it's not preferred.  Alternatively, you can also do that HPV testing. You can test for the HIRES HPVs every five years, if you're between the ages of 30 and 65.  That's pretty much it. That's pretty much it in terms of those people.  But then there are also unfortunately some other people that have, again, special cervical cancer screening guidelines. One is if you have HIV.  If you have HIV or let's see you've had them.  Oh  If you have some kind of immunodeficiency disease of some sort  Those people get pap smears every year. That's very important to know. So if you have HIV or some kind of immunodeficiency disease, especially those T-cell immunodeficiency diseases, like the George, for example, you need pap smears every year. That's very important. Now, another thing that's also helpful to know is...  His directives and pap smears, right? So the thing is, if a woman gets a his directives for a benign reason, so let's say for a lyoma, aoma for example.  After that he's directly me, do you still need to do pap smears? The answer to that is, no. In those people, you don't have to do pap smears. But if a woman had a hysterectomy for malignant reason, cervical cancer.  or endometrial cancer or endometrial hyperplasia. Then those people still need pap smears and you need to do those pap smears of the vaginal cough that's very high up to know you need to do those pap smears of the vaginal cough in those people on NBM exams.  And many times if you do a hysterectomy because of cervical cancer, many times you're going to keep doing those pap smears in those people for at least 20 years after the surgery was done. 20 years after the hysterectomy was done. And then one other thing that I think is important because again I want to be very thorough with the screening guidelines. I essentially want you to listen to this podcast, know all the screening guidelines and crush all these questions on exams.  So remember I said that you can stop you know, past days at the age of 65 or you know most women right now What are some things you want to keep in mind with stopping at 65 you stop at 65 when you need to criteria one  The person has no history of cervical cancer.  Right?  Or they have no history of like a very severe pop smear result like Oh, like HSIL or CIN3 or you know like really bad dysplasia right?  and the most of hard, three negative puff smears in a row.  right? They must have had three negative pap smears in a row or they may have they must have had like you know three negative I mean two negative like pups plus HPV Quotesting right so if you're just doing straight up pap smears you must have had three negatives in a row or if you're doing pap smears and the HPV Quotesting which is the preferred method over the age of 30 then if you have two of those negative in a row and you're again you're at 65 you can go ahead and stop you can go ahead and stop our pap smears in these people you can go ahead and stop pap smears in these people now the final category category number seven right so again just I guess to summarize what I've talked about already right for cancers I talked about colon cancer screening guidelines I talked about breast cancer screening guidelines I talked about cervical cancer screening guidelines again are there other guidelines beyond these yes they are what are they high up to know for the exam answer the question is pretty much no right but  Screening guidelines you see me discussing this podcast, they are important for you to know, for you to know for exams. And then the final group of people who category number seven, just again, just some grab bag once here. There's not much here, but basically remembering kids.  I guess the first thing I'll talk about here kids remember kids if you notice that they are having any Language difficulties you need to screen they're here you need to check their hearing many times You're gonna do that with audiometry. That's very important to know and they remember for all kids between the ages of three to five years old You're gonna screen them from Bliopia basically like lazy. Yeah, you're gonna screen them from Bliopia Once between the ages of three to five years old  right? And then remember many times if you're less than 24.  years old, everyone that is female will screen them for gonorrhea and chlamydia. If you are less than 24 years old, remember if you are over 24 years old, we only do that gonorrhea chlamydia screening if you are high risk.  And then some weird ones because the thing is remember most times when people get hit being so that's the third one I'm gonna discuss  Most people that get it from blood transfusions. But remember, you don't only get it from blood transfusions. Again, if you are intimately working with blood, you can get it. Right? So if a person is doing a lot of dialysis, remember dialysis, you're literally like circulating these people's blood through like many different machines. Right? Those people actually need headbeats screening every year.  right or  Let's say a person is immunosuppressed. Let's say they are on chemotherapy or long-term chemotherapy or long-term immunosuppressive therapy because they are post-transplant patients. Those people need to be screening every year. They need to be screening every year with the head-to-face antigen. And then remember.  Again, as I said for gonoreclamidia, we don't screen men for that on MBM exams, we screen only women. And remember, hep C, you deserve a one-time hep C screening. Usually if you're between everybody, between the ages of 18 to 79.  between the ages of 18 to 79, you deserve a one-time HEPSI screening. Right? And then don't forget that we also screen people for depression with, you know, these fancy questionnaires, like the, actually not fancy, they're easy questionnaires, like the PHQ line or the Bex Depression inventory, right? So those are the things you can, you can use, right? So again, to summarize, the seven categories of people we talked about in terms of screening today, category number one, where people that were pregnant, we talked about gestational diabetes, HIV, hebi, syphilis, asymptomatic bacteria, group B-strap, right? Arach status, right? And then category number two, we talked about where smokers, for smokers, we talked about the triple-least screening, we talked about osteoporosis screening, especially with them being less than 65, and then we talked about the lung cancer screening guidelines for smokers. And then for specialty genetic diseases, we talked about those category number three, we talked about familiar hypercholesterolemia.  With Dr. Vodian Flamatory Bowel Disease, talked about primary sclerosis in colangitis.  talked about a highly trained on polyposis corrector cancer that's a high yield group to know for exams. We talked about the APC gene mutation and familial at the number of polyposis, and then we talked about brachamutations.  And then category number four, we talked about the risky sexual folks. Right? So there we categorized like screening for HIV, screening for chlamydia gonorrhea, screening for syphilis, screening for head B. We talked about those, those people. And then category number five, we talked about metabolic diseases, we talked about hypertension, we talked about osteoporosis, we talked about diabetes, and we talked about hyperlipidemia.  And then for cancers, right, that was category number six, we talked about colon cancer screening guidelines, breast cancer screening guidelines, we talked about cervical cancer screening guidelines. And we said quite a bit about several cancers screening guidelines and when you go to stop. And then category number seven, we talked about just a grab bag, right? For the most part, we talked about like a B and C.  talked about kids, talked about Clamidian gonorrhea, right? And then we talked about depression. So again, please listen to this podcast over and over again if you need to.  find some way to commit the stuff to memory but I feel like the way I've grouped it for you probably makes it a lot easier to remember you just need to remember that all their seven categories  right and if you can kind of put these little things on under each one then I think it will be much, much easier to remember.  So as I do at the end of every podcast, I do offer 101 tutoring for step one, step two, just in case step three.  So if you're interested in that, should be an email through the website. And also, if you need to learn for pre-clean cool med school exams, 30-click shift shelf exams, I do also offer one on one tutoring for those. And then I have the review courses for step two, step three, complex level two, and three as well.  And then I also work with people on their era's applications. Right? Again, I've been on an admissions committee before. I've worked with tons of people that have matched into very competitive specialties and anesthesia, dermatology, ENT, neurosurgery.  orthopedic surgery, a lot of people that have marched into these categories. So if you have a tricky application...  and you need help with personal statements, reclators and stuff.  or editing your ERAS application, just again, should me an email through the website, I'll be able to give you some more information.  And then I have the spotcast on Apple podcasts on Google podcasts and on Spotify. So if you subscribe to those podcasts apps, you'll see the most recent 150 podcasts. I'm the Keith and I will just see there is, it's the most recent 150.  So since this episode 325, you'll see everything after episode 175.  If you want everything from episode 1, other way to 325, go to the website. It's a WordPress role that is really know to circumvent that role. And then I do also have a YouTube channel, Divine Intervention USMD podcast and videos. That's where I put the videos that I make for the website. Although if you want the slides that I'll associated with those videos again, go on the website itself.  You'll find the slides that I've associated with with those videos.  And then...  As I also say, there is this notes feature. If you go on the website, there is this can call the episode notes. So the website, by the way, is Divine Intervention Podcasts with an S.com.  So if you go there, there's an episode notes feature at the top.  Basically, a lot of my step one material, a lot of my step 2ck material has been transcribed.  I would encourage you to listen to the podcast to get you understanding. Most times it just makes more sense to make your own notes. It makes it a lot easier to remember. But if you can't, there are many of my podcasts. Especially for Step 2, Step 3. They have been transcribed on the website. Broken up by sections. Almost like a mini textbook in a sense. And then, by the way, I'll put an plugin for the DIP deck. The Divine Intervention Podcast deck. If you're studying out your third year rotations.  Let the IP deck contains  again it's basically like a very  awesome Anki Deck made of a ton of my high-ealt step to seek his material. So if that's something you're interested in again, it's on Reddit. Just look for the VIP deck, find the most recent thread on it and you should be able to download it, a very awesome medical student, pretty much made that deck, it wasn't made that made it. And then finally in terms of organization.  if you're trying to figure out over this subject what podcast should I study?  On the website, go to the part that says exam topic lists. These are the top, it's a header. Go to exam topic lists. If you click on it, it will take you to a Google spreadsheet that breaks things down by step one, step two, step two, step three. And it tells you all for internal medicine, these are the podcasts that are relevant. For the Rapid Review series, these are the podcasts that are relevant, just stuff like that. So that's just for me what I found to be the easiest organization tool right now.  So, you know, if you subscribe to the website, you'll find the intervention podcast.com. Whenever I make a new podcast, you will get an email notification.  So please, please, please listen to this podcast, commit the stuff to memory. I can pretty much promise you, this podcast will make...  positive benefit for those that are taking step QCK or step three or complex level two or complex level three. Even if you're studying for an internal medicine board exam, this podcast will be helpful. Again, pretty much every screening guideline you need to know. I have disgusting in this podcast. And also if you're taking the internal medicine shelf.  or the family medicine shelf.  This is definitely a podcast to also know and also the early part of this podcast on pregnant women Will be helpful for people that are taking an obi gang shelf So thank you for listening. I wish you all the best. God bless you. Thank you